YELLOWPOTTED SHRIMP: HOW TO TAKE CARE OF THE PLANT THAT IS A MAGNET FOR HUMMINGBIRDS

For us, yellow Potted Shrimp; for that hummingbird that occasionally appears in the neighborhood, a feast. Hence the attraction that this little plant exerts on human beings: it is a great bait for attracting friendly birds and insects, such as native hummingbirds and bees.
https://theyumyumclub.com/2019/02/20/potted-shrimp/to know about the potted shrimp.
The Pachystachys lutea , its scientific name, is native to Peru - so has familiarity with the Brazilian climate, quite similar to that of their place of origin. The right climate helps it reach up to 2 m in height when planted in tropical locations. In the United States and Europe, where it is appreciated as a decorative species, it barely exceeds 80 cm in height due to low temperatures.

In addition to the heat, humidity is also an attribute appreciated by the yellow shrimp , which likes moist Potted Shrimp soil, but well drained. Using organic fertilizers like bokashi and humus every 3 months encourages the little yellow flowers – actually bracts, modified leaves – to appear throughout the year. Note that they seem to form a square at the base, from which they rise and give rise to white flowers , which served as inspiration for the popular name of the species.



Yellow Potted Shrimp(Patchystachys lutea)

Popular name: Yellow shrimp.
Scientific name: Patchystachys lutea Ness
Family: Acanthaceae
Origin: Peru

The Yellow Shrimp is a perennial plant (lives more than a year), very attractive to hummingbirds. In temperate climate countries the plant is commonly used in interior decoration, planted in pots. But in Brazil it is mostly used in gardens.

How to cultivate: Yellow shrimp grows best if planted in full sun or in semi-shade, and can also be planted in pots. It is recommended to carry out regular watering, always keeping the soil moist, but not soggy. Pruning and annual fertilization with organic matter improve its flowering. To keep the plant compact, trim the tips before flowering.

How to reproduce: It is easily multiplied by cuttings, especially if cut at the end of flowering and rooted in a protected place with high temperatures and humidity.Its yellow inflorescence is very striking, and its leaves also have a good ornamental value. Yellow shrimp is cultivated in pots, in groups, or in rows along walls, low walls and walls, in half shade Potted Shrimp or in full sun.

It prefers higher temperatures, not withstanding too low temperatures well. High air humidity is also appreciated (above 60%).

HOW TO GROW YELLOW SHRIMP

The yellow shrimp ( Pachystachys  lutea )  is an erect and branched shrub originating in Peru that can reach from 0.5 meters to 1.20 meters in height.

INFLORESCENCES AND FLOWERS
Its inflorescences are spike-shaped and very ornamental. The yellow part is the bracts, which are modified leaves and the flowers are those white parts that come out on the side. They are formed in spring and summer and attract many hummingbirds!

HOW AND WHERE TO GROW
Yellow shrimp can be cultivated in pots like this one or directly in the garden, in groups forming beautiful, colorful masses, or in rows along walls, low walls or walls.

It can be grown in half shade or full sun. He likes fertile substrate and kept moist. Doesn't like low temperatures.

 

PRUNING AND MULTIPLICATION
In late autumn, make a pruning to renew the plant and encourage flowering. Use the pruning to make cuttings with the tips of the branches and multiply your plant.

 

FERTILIZING
Fertilize in early spring and summer with fertilization to stimulate flowering  and in early autumn, post-flowering fertilization . And every month, or every other month, you can fertilize with earthworm humus, which improves the porosity of the soil, increases the Potted Shrimp levels of nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, calcium and manganese in the soil, improves the pH and increases the number of microorganisms on the ground.

And there? Have you ever cultivated yellow shrimp? What was your experience with him? Tell me in Potted Shrimp the comments below.
